so as promised in the previous video now
time for a mini-challenge but just a
point before we start don't spend more
than a minute or two thinking about this
one
it is designed to be just something you
should hopefully just get off the top of
your head so don't spend again too much
time on it
so the challenge here is looking at the
way the last two examples have been
coded generally what is the difference
between the approach taken here in all
the previous example we use prior
to that in this course have a think
about that and come back when you
ready end i will give you some more
information about that
okay welcome back the answer simply is
there's no real difference at all so the
two of these two examples use classes
but apart from the fact that i wrote the
classes in the program's is no real
difference to the methodology that
we employed in other words if the song
album and artist classes had been part
of the standard library then there's
nothing to distinguish the approach here from
anything else that we've done so far
so this program uses objects but it's
not object orientated programming
object-oriented program is not just
about classes it's a different way of
thinking about problems and results in a
different program design so it uses
classes and objects for sure but it also
includes important concepts such as
encapsulation composition inheritance
and delegation now I have discuss
encapsulation at the start of this
section we're going to be looking at
inheritance and composition in later
videos delegation on the other hand
involves passing on responsibility for a
task to another object that's better
suited to deal with it and it's fairly
you know real really closely tied to
encapsulation now for example we've
been encapsulated data in our classes but
we haven't really encapsulated methods
very well now there's an add song
method in the album class and an add
album method in the artist class but you
know that's really it
these two methods were included because
the relevant classes own the lists that they will be
added to so it seemed quite natural
that the artist class should be
responsible for adding album object to
the list but this only considers the
data has been no attempt to encapsulate
the functionality of the program
encapsulation involves encapsulating
data and methods
it's not just data so we really need
to make some changes to turn this into
an object-oriented program rather than
just a program that happens to use
objects then there's obviously an
important distinction between those two
encapsulating methods means considering
questions such as which object is best
suited to dealing with this task or
where the responsibility for a performing
this function belong so relating this to
the real world if my car breaks down i'm
going to look for someone who can
encapsulates the knowledge of how to
fix it
mechanic in this case so my local
mechanic has been programmed by
attending college perhaps with a knowledge
necessary to fix a car so i'm going to
delegate the job to him or her
similarly if I want an extension on my
house i'm not going to try building
myself going to find someone who's got
the skills to do this for me so and that's
of course unless you're builder a
builder encapsulates the skills required
to build something that won't fall down or
leak in the rain and consequently I
delegate that task to them so relating
this back to our program looking at our
load data method bring that up on the
screen that function is doing all the
work of parsing the data and working out
what to do when it finds a new album and
a new song really though the object that
knows the most about albums is the
artists and albums know all about songs
so we really should encapsulate the
methods for dealing with albums in the
artist class and for dealing with songs in
the album class so once that's done load
data can delegate dealing with is to the
appropriate class will start by
rewriting the load data function to
delegate most of the work to the artists
class now when doing this I'm going to
be calling methods that haven't yet
been written now this may seem an odd
thing to do but an object-oriented
approach means you don't have to worry
about how something is done you focus on
the fact that you needed to be done and
something else will be responsible for
getting it done so that would make more
sense when you see the load data code so
let's go ahead and do that
so the first thing we want to do now if
load data is we're going to delete this
first bit of initialization code we no
longer need that so delete those three
lines they're or to be precise just
just those first two we want to leave
the artist_list we still need
that
...what I'm going to do
is that even though it's going to
involve some code that has already been
that exists on screen I'm going to delete it
and retype some of this in just so you can
see sort of much easier what's been
changed so i'm going to leave the width code
so we were obviously
initializing the list on line 92
this basic code here that retrieves the
dialogue from albums . txt that's not
going to change and we still going to
leave that printing out but after
that i'm going to remove all that code
and delete it because we can
substantially reduce the amount of code
here so I'm now on line 101 and we're
going to process each entry that we're
receiving or getting from the albums.txt
so...
...
...so we're looking for the
artist based on the name attribute which we
talk about extensively in the last video
and if the new artist is set to none
meaning that we weren't able to find it
in the list already then we're going to
create new artist....
...
...and that's that's it
so the first part of the function is
unchanged the artist class isn't
interested in the fact that data is
coming from a text file
nor is interested in the fact that it's
red as a tab-delimited list and so load
data as a result continues to be responsible
for reading the data and splitting it
into the correct fields and of course
that's the code from line
94 to 98 the list of artists belongs
to the main programs so load data also
retains responsibility for creating a
new artist object after checking that
one doesn't already exist with the
code here on line 102
that's all it does so everything else
you can see now is delegated to the
artist class by calling ist add song
method on line 106 and then providing
it with the fields remaining fields the
album field the year field in the song
field so that it can go ahead and create
that at this point we're not interested
in how the add song method does
we'll work i know that the song will
need to be added somehow but the focus
here is on dealing with artists only a
little worried about how add song will
function when I get around to coding it
until then I'm just gonna call it and
not worry about it so it might seem
strange calling a method that doesn't
exist and you know of course the
program won't work until it does exist but
if you think about it it's really no
different from delegating the repair of
a car to a mechanic you know in other
words I don't need any idea what the
mechanic will do it don't need to be a
mechanic and I don't need to understand how to fix
a car I just know that the car needs
fixing
so I can call my mechanic and say fix
the car and I do say hello first and please
afterwards of course but basically it
boils down to it I'm calling my
mechanics fix_car method and
hopefully i'm pretty confident that when
the car returns it will be fixed so I'm
sure you agree that looking at this code
now it's fast simple then my previous
version as a result much easy to
understand and in fact creating a
flowchart this would probably be totally
over-the-top because the code that we've
got now in our load data
function pretty much document
itself so now that the main program has
been written it's time to focus on the
details of that adds song method that were
calling on line 106 so what
we'll do is we'll create that method
first and then explain what it's doing
let's go back up to the artist class
that we have defined the code for that
we're going to add this method now
this add song after the add album
method so add here...
...
ok so that's our doc string for this
method so let's start by writing it i'm
just gonna move this up a little bit so
you can see more of the screen so we're
gonna start I will actually type
it out then we'll talk about a little
bit more so...
...
ok so hopefully the doc string that i
added on line 82 really says all that
needs to be said so add_song uses
the name of the album to check if an album
is already present in the list of
albums and then create a new album if it
isn't or if it doesn't exist in other
words it's not present the list of
albums anything else that needs to be
done is been delegated to the album's
to the album class add song method
the artist class knows about albums so
it deals with the album part it doesn't
know about songs that's left to the
album class to deal with
once again I don't care what the album
classes add song method does at this
stage I just know i'm going to call it
and let the album class handle what
happens and you saw me add print
statements here so that we can see
what's happening when we come to run the
program but the rest of the code again
once again pretty much document itself
so i'm going to finish the video here
now I don't know why I added a semi colon at
the end by the way wrong programming language
so I'm going to finish the video here in the
next video we'll come back and will
implement the album class add song method
so that we can delegate the task of
dealing with the song to that method so
see you in the next video